# Deploying Filebrowser

FileBrowser offers a comprehensive file management interface within a specified directory. It enables users to upload, delete, preview, rename, and edit files with ease. 
The application supports the creation of multiple user accounts, each with its own dedicated directory. FileBrowser can function as a standalone application, providing a versatile solution for your file management needs.

[GitHub - filebrowser/filebrowser: 📂 Web File Browser](https://github.com/filebrowser/filebrowser)

## Check out Demo

Experience it firsthand by exploring the url: [https://demo.filebrowser.org/](https://demo.filebrowser.org/)

Login with the credentials: `demo`/`demo`

## Key Features

- **Secure Authentication**: Users can securely sign in using their unique username and password.

- **Intuitive User Interface**: The application boasts a user-friendly and intuitive user interface.

- **Advanced User Management**: Comprehensive user management system with customizable permissions for different roles.

- **Integrated Editor**: The application comes with an inbuilt editor for seamless user experience.

- **Command Line Interface**: The application provides a command line interface for advanced users.

- **High Customizability**: The application offers high customizability to cater to the specific needs of the users.

## Installation

- Browse to the desire directory of setup
  
  1st one Browses me to my D Drive on Windows machine
  2nd one Browses me to my user folder on ubuntu
  
  ```bash
  cd /mnt/d/
  cd ~
  ```

- Create a folder "**filebrowser**"
  
  ```bash
  mkdir filebrowser
  ```

- Browse into the folder
  
  ```bash
  cd filebrowser
  ```

- Create a docker compose file
  
  ```bash
  nano docker-compose.yml
  ```

- Paste the content provided below

- Save the docker file

```dockerfile
version: '1'
services:
  file-browser:
    image: filebrowser/filebrowser
    container_name: file-browser
    #uid and gid is 0 for root
    user: 0:0 #uid and gid
    ports:
      - 8081:80 #Web Gui Will be available on port 8081
    volumes:
      - /:/srv
      - /mnt/e/Media Libraries:/srv/public/
      - /mnt/e/Software:/srv/public/software
      - /mnt/d/filebrowser/branding:/branding
      - /mnt/d/filebrowser/filebrowser.db:/database.db
    restart: unless-stopped #Docker will restart on its own everytime it crashes
    security_opt:
      - no-new-privileges:true
```

This is a Docker Compose file that defines a single service named `file-browser`. Here’s what each part does:

- `version: '1'`: This specifies the version of the Docker Compose file format. Version 1 is the simplest and has the fewest features.

- `services:`: This is the section where you define your services. In this case, there’s just one service named `file-browser`.

- `image: filebrowser/filebrowser`: This tells Docker to use the `filebrowser/filebrowser` image from Docker Hub for this service.

- `container_name: file-browser`: This sets the name of the container to `file-browser`.

- `user: 0:0`: This sets the user and group IDs inside the container to 0, which corresponds to the root user.

- `ports: - 8081:80`: This maps port 80 inside the container to port 8081 on the host machine.

- `volumes:`: This section defines several volumes that map paths on the host machine to paths inside the container.

- `restart: unless-stopped`: This tells Docker to automatically restart the container if it crashes, unless it was manually stopped.

- `security_opt: - no-new-privileges:true`: This is a security option that prevents the container from gaining additional privileges.
  

Create a file "**filebrowser.db**" with "touch"

```bash
touch filebrowser.db
```

Run Docker compose

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This is the expected output

```
[+] Running 7/7
 ✔ file-browser 6 layers [⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿]      0B/0B      Pulled                                        28.4s
   ✔ 96526aa774ef Pull complete                                                                  1.3s
   ✔ 4cd11ac74992 Pull complete                                                                  1.5s
   ✔ c1704dc57ef6 Pull complete                                                                  1.8s
   ✔ 7d93757e2553 Pull complete                                                                  9.2s
   ✔ b958797ac20d Pull complete                                                                  8.1s
   ✔ 9fe72cb8f2c1 Pull complete                                                                  2.8s
[+] Building 0.0s (0/0)                                                                docker:default
[+] Running 2/2
 ✔ Network filebrowser_default  Created                                                          0.2s
 ✔ Container file-browser       Started                                                          0.4s
```

Verify if docker container is running

```bash
docker ps
```

Expected outcome

```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                     COMMAND          CREATED          STATUS                    PORTS                                   NAMES
34ad15cbb1c4   filebrowser/filebrowser   "/filebrowser"   59 seconds ago   Up 57 seconds (healthy)   0.0.0.0:8081->80/tcp, :::8081->80/tcp   file-browser
```

Now you will be Greeted by the Login page of Filebrowser

## Setup

1. Login into the GUI via Default credentials at `127.0.0.1:8081`
   admin / admin

2. Goto Settings and Change the admin user credentials

3. You can change the password here if you plan on keeping current username
   else go to user management

4. Click on the pencil icon to edit this user

5. Change the username/password to your preference

6. Save the changes then logout

7. Login with new credentials

## Recommended settings

- Profile Settings - Hide dotfiles

## User scpopes

Under user management and default settings for user you will notice a option called scope. Imagine you want onlt one folder and its subfolders to be accessible by the new user this is exactly what you need for it.

`/media` will allow new users to only access files in media folder and it's subfolders

## Custom Branding (soon)


